>> Sean Larkin: So the last thing that I
think is gonna be really fun to talk about
is,
>> Sean Larkin: Is going to be like,
presets.
And it's gonna kinda tie around why
we would add a preset system, and
it's kinda related to some experimentation
that I'm doing in our source
code right now to implement
a feature that would look like
this.
>> Sean Larkin: I do wanna pull this up.
I wanna look at the repo
I had open before.
>> Sean Larkin: I'm gonna jump to that
branch I was in.
>> Sean Larkin: And
so, if we are ready, so I wanna talk
about this code really quick and
just explain it.
>> Sean Larkin: And
so, think of,
when I started using Webpack,
one of the things that
frustrated me was that,
I would add something to
see if it would work, and
then I'd either forget to remove it,
or I'd irrevocably break things.
I'd be like, what did I do?
And I don't think that's really,
that's not a great experience,
it doesn't leave people feeling confident.
And although we've solved
a lot of that just by making
defaults of the mode property,
the idea of presets is that,
there are gonna be more than just dev and
prod.
You're gonna have some different
scenarios that might just be like,
I wanna try this feature, or I wanna
analyze my build just this one time,
so it could be ad hoc or it could
maybe be something your CI just runs.
But you don't want it like shipped
right in your prog, config,
because it's not relevant
every time you run it, right?
Now, that's kind of
where presets came from.
Sometimes, I call them add-ons.
You can call it whatever you want really.
But if you look at this code here and
this is what we'll be writing is,
we're taking and we're defining
a function that takes an env,
takes the whole, I guess, env that
we would get from the main config,
now we're pulling out the presets option.
Now, these little syntax here is just
saying, it's just doing a flatten.
So we might get one preset in an array or
we might get an array of array presets,
but it's just saying like,
flatten these into a list of strings.
And then, we're gonna map these into
a require function that takes that
preset name,
just as we did the webpack.prod or
webpack.dev, or development,
and it's gonna call them.
And so that way,
we essentially have one or two or
three, or if we have four strings in here,
we're gonna get four objects that
might be little configs, right?
And then, what we do is,
we just merge them up, and then we return.
So why don't we implement this?
And then, I'll show you kinda how
it relates in our code itself.
Always nice to have this one side by side,
cuz sometimes I write it
a little different every time.
Or maybe, I should just publish
it to a node module, right?
That would be kind of useful.
So what you can do,
actually that's a great idea.
Let's go into our load presets file,
I had you create it early on.
And let's go ahead and
implement this code.
So first thing is, we're gonna
eventually need webpack-merge, so
we'll require it.
>> Sean Larkin: Okay,
and then,
>> Sean Larkin: I think,
maybe, I'm just gonna see,
I do wanna change it slightly.
I'll say, applyPresets equals a function.
I think that just looks nicer and
I was just preaching you should have
moduled out exports at the bottom.
So, applyPresets.
I don't know, I like that a little better.
>> Sean Larkin: And
it's gonna take env.
>> Sean Larkin: Now, the reason why I
think I said I want to pull the whole env
in here, was because you wanna pass them
down to these other configs in case you
wanted to have individual behavior.
Now remember,
this is just convention, right?
This is just convention that's
gonna help you understand, hey,
I can compose these things
as many ways as I want to,
and the options are almost limitless.
>> Sean Larkin: So
presents equals env, so we're just doing
a de-structure to grab that property,
and then I'm gonna say,
const mergedPresets =, so
essentially just flattening them,
I could say flattened the presets.
So concat, I could pull down Andre Stalz's
dot smoosh.
>> Sean Larkin: For
any of those who are in
Twitter actively and
know about this smoosh gig.
>> Sean Larkin: And
the, what we're gonna do is, this is just
gonna be an array of strings, right?
So we're gonna take and say,
let's see, this is kinda fun.
I'm just gonna, really quick,
you don't have to do this.
>> Sean Larkin: But
it helps with the IntelliSense.
>> Sean Larkin: There
we go.
>> Sean Larkin: So I can say,
mergedConfigs = merged Presets.map.
See now, I get an array string,
string and everything.
So nice.
And I'm gonna say,
preset name, we're just gonna
return a require,
>> Sean Larkin: And
a template string inside of it.
>> Sean Larkin: That's just
pulling the old presets/webpack., and
then preset name.
>> Sean Larkin: And then, we
wanna call it and pass the env in there.
>> Sean Larkin: Here we go.
That looks nice and formatted.
Okay, so now, we're just gonna return
just a webpack-merged version of that.
So return webpack-merged, and
we start with an empty object,
just as if you're doing object assign and
just use the rest parameter
to pipe them all in as
individual parameters.
>> Sean Larkin: Does anybody have any
question about what this code is doing?
>> Sean Larkin: Or
need any clarification?
>> Sean Larkin: Do
you think this will be useful if it
was just a standalone module, and
you could just add your own preset system?
Maybe?
Okay, we've been thinking
about this a lot.
So why don't we jump into our
regular config, and so now,
we just need to add a little bit of extra
code here to implement the merge presets.
So if we jumped in the root of the repo,
just gonna verify,
it's just adding it to the bottom, right?
Yep, so
what you can do is essentially add,
we wanna import this module,
>> Sean Larkin: And
I call it const presetConfig.
>> Sean Larkin: Build-utils,
think that was right, right?
>> Sean Larkin: I'm so
spoiled and I look for
the IntelliSense there.
Load,
>> Sean Larkin: Now, all we have to do is,
we're gonna get presets passed to
us from the env parameter, right?
So we can now just go ahead and
add it at the bottom.
So we could say presetsConfig, and
it look like the way that I passed
it in just to make sure,
>> Sean Larkin: I'm
keeping track of doing
it consistently here.
Where did I just have that?
>> Sean Larkin: Then close it.
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah, okay, so
we did destructor code and
presets back into it.
>> Sean Larkin: So in theory,
what does this mean you can do now?
>> Sean Larkin: Now,
we can actually take and
create tiny configs, or smaller configs,
that just have one-off features
that we would wanna implement.
So we could create a new preset, and
it just has to follow the same naming
pattern that we've been doing, so
like webpack.typescript.
>> Sean Larkin: Typescript.config.
>> Sean Larkin: Or, I'm sorry,
typescript.js.
So now, on a whim,
I can go ahead and say like,
oops,
>> Sean Larkin: And
I could add a single rule,
like module, rules,
in the same way that we would
wanna support TypeScript,
ts, use ts-loader,
>> Sean Larkin: Except making an object.
>> Sean Larkin: There we go.
And, of course we would
wanna add TypeScript.
Like, yarn add ts-loader TypeScript,
I just use that
next.
>> Sean Larkin: But
what's super cool now is that,
I can add this capability just by
adding a parameter,
like a command line parameter, right?
So we know that you can pass in
other properties on this env.
So let's say, if I wanted to say it like,
I wanna run prod typescript, you know?
So I would run, npm run prod,
I get everything I get
out of the box with prod,
but now I'm gonna say,
env.presets.
>> Sean Larkin: And then,
typescript.
>> Sean Larkin: So if we were to try and
run this,
>> Sean Larkin: npm run,
yarn run prod typescript,
>> Sean Larkin: What did I miss?
>> Sean Larkin: Oops, I know.
This file should be up a level,
in build-utils.
>> Sean Larkin: And,
>> Sean Larkin: Cannot find module
presets.webpack.undefined.
>> Speaker 2: Do you need the double dash
in the scripts?
>> Sean Larkin: Double dash.
>> Speaker 2: The package.json scripts.
>> Sean Larkin: My gosh, yes, I absolutely
do.
>> Sean Larkin: You saved me today, Kayla.
Kayla's got me.
So of course,
we just added TypeScript support.
But you're like, Sean, how do I really
know there's typescript support?
Like, let's write some typescript.
Let's do it.
Like this is the power of having
an add-on is that, at any time,
you can just pilot whatever you want.
So like, I don't know, we could just say,
I'm just going to do foo.ts in this case.
So, I could say like, export.
I'll do something really typescript-y.
Export default class something, like foo.
And then like, let's use some illegal
syntax that wouldn't be correct.
I could just say like, public readonly.
I'm so out, public bar,
right, and constructor.
This should throw instantly, right,
if this was just JavaScript.
And then, this.bar equals,
I don't know, like hi.
Like really, the content doesn't matter,
it's just the fact that we're writing
TypeScript d syntax, and
we're getting TypeScript out of it.
So like, if I ran it again,
>> Sean Larkin: There we go,
it builds just like JavaScript.
Wait, well,
I should import it just to make, import,
>> Sean Larkin: Import foo from,
there we go.
Now, I really feel, we have our case here.
>> Sean Larkin: We got an error, foo.ts.
And we'll talk about this a little more, I
just wanna focus on the preset itself and
not like the typescript support.
I know what's missing but, there we go,
so there is an actual typescript error.
Like, if they compile and
run, it was like, hey dude,
if you wanna use typescripts,
you have to have a ts config, right?
So we can go into the ad
hoc typescript case itself,
tomorrow, if that's something
you think is valuable or
supporting it,
the main point here is that,
we just like on the whim of a flag,
just made it possible to add a preset.
So one preset that I think is really
valuable that you should all add,
do we have any questions about
the preset or the code that was written?
Has anybody struggled with adding
the support or, and we'll create one
that you can actually use, I'm just
gonna remove this typescript one and
save the branch,
>> Sean Larkin: And
delete the texture file, and
that reference, there we go.
Because, we'll spend some time on it.
>> Sean Larkin: Get checkout,
>> Sean Larkin: 4013-adding-presets.
>> Sean Larkin: 04013.
>> Sean Larkin: Awesome.